Computer Security: The Mess We're In, How We Got Here, and What to Do About It
Alan Karp

Abstract: There are dozens of companies selling products to solve your Identity and Access Management (IAM) problems. Why so many? Because IAM is really hard. But why is IAM so hard? I hope to convince you that the reason is that our approach to IAM is fundamentally flawed. The talk includes a plausible conspiracy theory that explains how we got into this mess and a strategy for getting out of it. Unlike the other talks in this series, there is nothing intellectually challenging, giving you the opportunity to focus on more important things, such as your Christmas shopping list.


Bio: Alan Karp has a Ph.D. in Astronomy from the University of Maryland and was an assistant professor of physics at Dartmouth College, where he learned he couldn't write a decent grant proposal if his academic career depended on it, which it did. He then went over to the dark side, doing 15 to life at IBM and more than 20 years at HP Labs. Alan worked in a variety of fields, including processor architecture as one of the designers of the Itanium, game theory, work that explained a non-intuitive Nash equilibrium, and distributed systems, where his research was turned into an HP product that was later described as "web services before there were web services." His last several years at HP were spent building systems that were made easier to use by adding security. To learn about his other work, search for Cash-Karp Runga Kutta, Karp-Markstein division, and the Karp-Flatt metric. After leaving HP he tried being retired but didn't like it, so he became Principled (not a typo) Architect at EARTH Computing, a startup bringing to market a new kind of datacenter network. When EARTH Computing folded, he decided to complete SitePassword, a different kind of password manager that started with a 2002 implementation. Alan received two IBM Technical Innovation Awards and is actually proud of a few of his 75+ patents.
